Document how to vendor a repo (#964)
Uninett/Argus: docs/development/howtos/vendor-a-repo.rst

====================
How to vendor a repo
====================

By "vendoring a repo" we mean to include the source code of a repo into an
existing repo. Following this how to will give you one repo with an extra root.

The TARGET repo is the the repo we want to end up with while the ORIGIN
repo is the one we want to merge in (our terms). In this case, we wish to merge
the "main" branch of ORIGIN into the "master" branch of TARGET. (It is easier
to keep track if the branches have different names.)

This how to assumes that ORIGIN and TARGET has no shared history, as is
the case if ORIGIN is a standalone library or django app.

Prep the ORIGIN repo
--------------------

1. Be placed somewhere there is no git repo
2. Clone the ORIGIN repo locally::

        git clone ORIGIN-clone path/to/ORIGIN

3. cd into ORIGIN-clone
4. Make sure you are on "main" branch of ORIGIN-clone

> 5. Move every single file found by ``.gitignore`` in ORIGIN to a new directory that

Author: See changed text

4. Whether you merged to master or not, start a new branch for the fixing::

        git switch -c move-ORIGIN-files-to-correct-location

5. Do all the moving. Remember that ORIGIN's code might have additional stuff
   in it's ``.gitignore`` and other files (inside ``merge/``) that needs
   to be *added* to the corresponding files of TARGET. Make one commit for
   all files that can be moved without changes and then commit each time you
   need to merge in new stuff. If you need to update import paths or file paths
   in either, they also get a commit each, per path. So: if ORIGIN's module
   name is "my_fine_app" and it will be moved to TARGET's file hierarchy as
   "src/argus/my_fine_app" and module hierarchy as "argus.my_fine_app", make
   one commit for all the file path changes and another for all the "import"
   changes.
6. Push move-ORIGIN-files-to-correct-location upstream so others can have a look::

        git push -u move-ORIGIN-files-to-correct-location

7. When done and tests are green, merge/rebase/squash to master (you can do
   this via github).

Done!

If ORIGIN is to cease to exist as a repo, move open issues to TARGET's repo.

Moving issues
-------------

> Github can move issues between Github repos just fine. There's a link to move
> issues in the right-hand menu on each issue page. If the TARGET repo has the
> labels of the ORIGIN repo, the labels will copy over just fine too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Github can easily transfer issues between repos . There's a link to transfer
an issue in the right-hand menu on each issue page. If the TARGET repo has the
labels of the ORIGIN repo, the labels will copy over just fine too.
```

Move other branches from ORIGIN to TARGET
=========================================

Move PR
-------

If you want to move a PR to the argus-server repo (TARGET) you first need to
move the branch, then start a new PR with the same name at argus-server, then
link back to any discussion in this repo from the new PR. Now you can close the

> PR in this repo.

Reviewer: This is the first mention of "argus-server" in this document, somewhat out of the blue. Is it meant just as an example?  Does it need to have an example name all the while ORIGIN and TARGET is used everywhere else?

Author: This bit was copied from argus-htmx, which was arg-server specific

   one commit for all the file path changes and another for all the "import"
   changes.
6. Push move-ORIGIN-files-to-correct-location upstream so others can have a look::

        git push -u move-ORIGIN-files-to-correct-location

7. When done and tests are green, merge/rebase/squash to "master" (you can do
   this via github).

Done!

If ORIGIN is to cease to exist as a repo, move its open issues to TARGET's
issue tracker.

Transferring Github issues
--------------------------

It is easy to transfer issues between Github repos, though only one at a time.
There's a link to transfer issues in the right-hand menu on each issue page. If
the TARGET repo has the labels of the ORIGIN repo, the labels will copy over
just fine too.

Notifications will be sent per issue moved so if many are moved at a time give
a heads up to the team: they are about to be spammed.

Move Github PR
==============

If you want to move a PR to the TARGET's official Github you first need to move
the branch, then start a new PR with the same name at TARGET, then link back to
the ORIGIN repo from the new PR. Now you can close the PR in ORIGIN.

Move other branches from ORIGIN to TARGET

> =========================================

Author: It's an artifact of two documents being sewn together. Fixed.
